[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: The other bit that I'll
show you in the administrative section is
how to create a goal.
Because a lot of the very useful
stuff you can do in Google Analytics
results is about like
users reaching a goal.
So if I go into the goals section and
create a new goal.
A very common goal.
There's lots of different kinds.
>> Kevin Whinnery: But
a goal that you're probably gonna
use a lot is, what is this?
This is new and I'm gonna go with custom,
cuz this scares me.
So a goal you're probably gonna use
a lot is arriving on a certain page.
Whether it's like a marketing page that
you're trying to drive a lot of traffic to
or if it's a page like after a user signs
up it's a successful like sign up page.
If people are reaching those
goal pages like that is an event
that you want to track in your analytics.
So I could create a goal for
a page that doesn't exist called sign up.
And you can only in Google Analytics
this is another another limitation,
you can only set a certain
amount of goals.
I haven't used any of my goal slots yet
so I will go with goal one.
And the type of goal I'm gonna
create is a destination.
So that's going to be a specific place
that somebody can go on my site.
And then for the destination,
you can have you know any page that begins
with something or
you can have a specific page like sign up.
Success, so this is how you know that
somebody successfully made it through
your entire sign up flow.
And then there's other advanced stuff you
can do here for funnels and what have you.
But I'm gonna create that goal.
Even though I'm not gonna actually
catch anybody with that goal.
But if I go back to my
customization in my custom report,
I can actually track that now
as a metric in my report.
So in this case I won't name my report yet
but I will add as a metric here that
specific goal that I just configured.
So it was goal number one
which we called Sign up.
So there's a few different metrics
you can track based on the goal.
You can check the raw number which
is gonna be sign up completions.
So that will be the raw number
of times if somebody arrived
on that page and
then you can also track the Goal 1.
You can also track the conversion rate.
So this is one that you're
gonna use in conjunction with
a landing page report, like this one.
So you can say,
across all landing pages on my site,
show me how many sign ups
each one of them generated.
And then also show me the conversion rate.
What percentage of sessions
that began on this page
resulted in the type of
goal that I created?
So this ends up being a powerful
combination to start looking at
specific sections of content in
your site to understand what
pages are performing the best.
What sections of the site are performing
the best and how good a job you're doing
and converting users into doing the things
that you care about on your site.
Now the last bit I'll show you here in the
UI is the ability to create segments and
a wise man once told me that segments
are where Jesus lives in Google Analytics.
And this is how you can really
start to break down like which
sets of browsing sections on
your site are the most valuable.
So if I open up this UI
to create a new segment.
I can create a customized view
of a certain set of users and
compare them to other
kinds of users on my site.
So for this one I will say Russian
users because apparently my site like
there's some weird spammy stuff going on.
So like over half of the traffic
to my site is from Russia.
So we'll separate them out as a segment,
and
look at them in comparison to some others.
So some of the conditions
we can do are Demographics,
>> Kevin Whinnery: And Location.
So we can do a country, contains Russia,
and that's going to be as it updates,
it's only 48% I guess of users on
my site are coming from Russia.
So I've created a segment for
just Russian users that visit my website.
So I can look at just those users and
then I can look at the inverse as well.
So I can create a segment for
non-Russians.
And I can look at how
the behavior of these
two does not contain.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
if our math is correct.
>> Audience: [CROSSTALK]
>> Kevin Whinnery: I didn't, whoops.
Did I say contains?
>> Audience: I think contains
[CROSSTALK]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Whoops.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Does not contain,
good job team.
And there we are back to our 51%.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And let's
edit this report back to something that
might actually be kind of interesting.
And look at some metrics like.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Time
on page.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Average time on page
and bounce rate let's say.
>> Kevin Whinnery: I'll
save that up.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
it turns out that the Russian traffic,
which I assume
to be almost completely due to Shenanigans
is a much higher time on page.
And people from everywhere else in
the world spend an average of 30 seconds
on any given page,
even given a landing page in the site.
So I can kind of sort and
see which ones are performing the best
based on average time on page.
The about page is clearly performing.
But I can see that folks that are coming
from outside of Russia actually
bounce much less frequently.
So they're more likely to see more than
one page during their browsing session.
So this is doing segments
by geography can be useful.
But it's also very useful to
create segments by event.
So if you have a session which
contained like a video play event,
those types of users might behave
very differently from users that
didn't initiate like a video
play say on your site.
So I know there's a ton
to do in this tool.
if you have more questions about it, I
definitely I'm happy to geek out on this.
I'm learning more about the two all
the time, trying to get better at it.
And the more I learn the more
I want to learn more about
how users are interacting with the site.
So hopefully,
this will put a bug in your ear to
get that same level of visibility
into your own website.